# cybersecurity-commands-
This repository contains a collection of command line tools that can be used to improve cyber security on a Linux system.
Installation

To install these tools, you will need to have git and make installed on your system. You can install these dependencies using your package manager (e.g., apt-get for Debian/Ubuntu, yum for CentOS/Fedora).

Once you have git and make installed, you can clone this repository and install the tools using the following commands:

sudo git clone https://github.com/burnermkali/cybersecurity-commands.git
cd cybersecurity-commands
sudo make install


This will install the following tools:

    clamscan: a antivirus tool that scans for and removes malware
    rkhunter: a tool that scans for rootkits
    pwgen: a tool that generates strong, unique passwords
    unattended-upgrades: a package that automatically applies security updates to your system
    rsync: a tool that can be used to create backups of your important files
    ufw: a firewall tool that can be used to protect against unauthorized access and denial of service attacks
    snort: an intrusion detection system that can be used to detect and block malicious traffic

Usage

Here are some examples of how to use these tools:

    To scan your system for malware using clamscan, use the following command:

sudo clamscan -r /

This will scan your entire system for malware and display the results.

    To generate a strong, unique password using pwgen, use the following command:

pwgen 20 1

This will generate a single password that is 20 characters long. You can adjust the length and number of passwords generated by modifying the arguments passed to pwgen.

    To enable the unattended-upgrades package and automatically apply security updates, you can use the following command:

sudo systemctl enable --now unattended-upgrades

    To create a backup of your important files using rsync, use the following command:

sudo rsync -av /path/to/important/files /path/to/backup/location

This will recursively copy all files and directories from /path/to/important/files to /path/to/backup/location, preserving file permissions and timestamps.

    To configure a firewall using ufw, you can use the following commands:
    
sudo ufw default deny incoming
sudo ufw default allow outgoing
sudo ufw allow ssh
sudo ufw enable


These commands will set the default policy to deny incoming connections, allow outgoing connections, allow ssh connections, and enable the firewall. You can add additional rules to allow or deny specific ports or services.

    To use snort as an intrusion detection system, you will need to configure a rule set and start the snort service. You can refer to the snort documentation for more information on how to do this.

